---
layout: post
title: "CSE 130 Lecture 18"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [lecture]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Prolog

Prolog picks the first rule first.

	ancestor(X,Y) :- parent(X,Y).
	ancestor(X,Y) :- parent(X,Z), ancestor(Z,Y).

Order is important.

	ancestor(X,Y) :- ancestor(X,Z), parent(Z,Y).

does not work.   -- infinite loop

	sibling(X,Y) :- parent(Z,X), parent(Z,Y).

does not prevent X and Y from bing the same.

	sibling(X,Y) :- not(X=Y), parent(Z,X), parent(Z,Y).

does not work either.

	X = Y.

means can X and Y be unified?  This is always true because X and Y can be anything.

	sibling(X,Y) :- parent(Z,X), parent(Z,Y), not(X=Y).

works!! Because `not(X=Y)` is applied to X and Y which has already assigned with specific values.

	1 + 1 = 2.

is false because 1 + 1 is a tree of 3 nodes and 2 is a single node.  They are never be unified.

	2 is (1+1).

is true.

	X is (1+1).

returns `X = 2`.


## Basic computations

### function X1, X2, X3 -> Y

Create a predicate Pf(X1,X2,X3,Y) such that it is true when f(X1,X2,X3) = Y.

	plus(X, Y, Z) :- Z is X + Y.

	factorial(0, 1).
	factorial(N, K) :- N1 is N-1, fac(N1, K1), K is K1 * N.

### Data structures

#### List

	firstAndThirdAreSame([X, _, X|_ ]).

	head([H|_], H).
	tail([_|T], T).

	len([], 0).
	len([H|T], N) :- len(T, K), N is 1 + K.

	append([], L, L).
	append(L, [], L).
	append([H|T], L2, [H|REST]) :- append(T, L2, REST).

How abut reverse?
In Ocaml, we can write it as follows.

	let rec reverse xs = 
	  let rec helpre xs acc = match xs with
	    | [] -> acc
            | h::t -> helper t (h::acc) in
	  helper xs []

Follow the same rule.

	reverse(X, Y) :- helper(X, Y, []).
	helper([], Y, Y). 
	helpre([H|T], Y, SoFar) :- helper(T, Y, [H|SoFar]).


 
	isin(X, [X|_]).
	isin(X, [_|T]) :- isin(X, T).


### Problem solving

Farmer, Wolf, Goat, Cabbage  => across the river.  How?


List for their positions:  [Position_of_F, P_W, P_G, P_C].


